Legacy expression migration tool (#1381)
telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib: scripts/legacy_expression_tool.md

be executed in dry-run mode, so it will not modify the database, but it will generate a series os files that can be used to 
ease and verify data migration.

## Output files

The script generates 4 different files each time it is executed: 

### `legacy_expression_ocurrences.json`

This file contains information about the objects where the legacy expressions are found. It contains the following information 
for each legacy expression found:

- _id: The id of the object where the legacy expression is found
- expression: The legacy expression found
- type: The type of the object where the legacy expression is found (I.E: active.expression)
- fiware_service: The fiware service of the object where the legacy expression is found
- fiware_servicepath: The fiware service path of the object where the legacy expression is found

### `legacy_expression_list.json`

This file contains just a list of all the legacy expressions found in the database. It can be used to build the translation 
file. The file looks like this:

```json
[
    "${legacy-expression-1}",
    "${legacy-expression-2}",
    ...
    "${legacy-expression-n}"
]
```

> ### `objects_replaced.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `document_replaced.json`
```

And alongside modifications in code to use that name.

Author: Done in https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1381/commits/cc9693fe782f6da453121ccdbeca6fad9b4f3997

> This file contains a list of objects where the legacy expressions have been replaced with all the information associated. This 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains a list of documents where the legacy expressions are going to be replaced with all the information associated. This 
```

I think is more precise this way, as in the default mode (dry run) no document is replaced.

In addition, the term "document" is more precise when we refer to documents stored in MongoDB. Of course, they are also JSON objects, but JSON object could refer to other things.

file is useful to preview the changes expected to be done in the database before applying them.

> ### `objects_backup.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `documents_backup.json`
```

And alongside modifications in code to use that name.

Author: Done https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1381/commits/cc9693fe782f6da453121ccdbeca6fad9b4f3997

> This file contains a list of objects containing legacy expression that have been backed up. This file is useful to preview the 
> changes expected to be done in the database before modifying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains a list of documents containing legacy expression that have been backed up. This file is useful to preview the 
changes expected to be done in the database before modifying it. This file is generated only when actual modifications are done to the DB (ie. when `--commit` parameter is used).
```

Reviewer: Again, I'm not sure... please check my suggestion is correct.

Author: It always generates backup file, no matter if committing or not the changes to the DB. Considering to store the backup only when committing can be considered

Reviewer: No problem with generating always the backup, but it should be documented (eg. "Note that this file is generated no matter if actual changes are going to be done in the DB (i.e. `--commit` is used) or not").

Author: done in https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1381/commits/3e7c7b1e2b5300c32d6e5a3f13b9852b370de0c6

## Command line arguments

The script can be executed using the following command:

```bash
python legacy_expression_tool.py \
    --host <mongodb-host> \
    --port <mongodb-port> \
    --database <mongodb-db> \
    --collection <mongodb-collection> \
    --translation <translation-file> 
```

The list of possible arguments that the scripts accepts are:

> | Argument | Description | Default value | Mandatory |
> | -------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- |
> | `-H`, `--host` | The host of the MongoDB instance | `localhost` | No |
> | `-p`, `--port` | The port of the MongoDB instance | `27017` | No |
> | `-db`, `--database` | The database name to replace the expressions | NA | Yes |
> | `-c`, `--collection` | The collection name to replace the expressions | NA | Yes |
> | `-t`, `--translation` | The translation dictionary file to replace the expressions | `translation.json` | No |
> | `-D`, `--debug` | Enable debug mode | `False` | No |
> | `-cm`, `--commit` | Commit the changes to the database | `False` | No |
> | `-el`, `--expression-language` | What to do with the expression language field. Possibles values: `delete`, `ignore` or `jexl` | `ignore` | No |
> | `-stat`, `--statistics` | Print match statistics. Aggregation modes are the possible values: `service` and `subservice` | `service` | No |
> | `-S`, `--service` | The fiware service filter to replace the expressions | All subservices | No |
> | `-P`, `--service-path` | The fiware service path filter to replace the expressions | All subservices | No |
> | `-i`, `--deviceid` | The device id filter to replace the expressions | All devices | No |

Reviewer: It's a matter of style, but instead of providing cryptic short CLI in a script which usage life is very limited (only during the migration) I'd suggest keep only the long options:

```suggestion
| Argument | Description | Default value | Mandatory |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------- | --------- |
| `--host` | The host of the MongoDB instance | `localhost` | No |
| `--port` | The port of the MongoDB instance | `27017` | No |
| `--database` | The database name to replace the expressions | NA | Yes |
| `--collection` | The collection name to replace the expressions | NA | Yes |
| `--translation` | The translation dictionary file to replace the expressions | `translation.json` | No |
| `--debug` | Enable debug mode | `False` | No |
| `--commit` | Commit the changes to the database | `False` | No |
| `--expression-language` | What to do with the expression language field. Possibles values: `delete`, `ignore` or `jexl` | `ignore` | No |
| `--statistics` | Print match statistics. Aggregation modes are the possible values: `service` and `subservice` | `service` | No |
| `--service` | The fiware service filter to replace the expressions | All subservices | No |
| `--service-path` | The fiware service path filter to replace the expressions | All subservices | No |
| `--deviceid` | The device id filter to replace the expressions | All devices | No |
```

Author: done in https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1381/commits/3e7c7b1e2b5300c32d6e5a3f13b9852b370de0c6

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that filters (`--service`, `--service-path` and `--deviceid`) are interpreted in additive way (i.e. like a logical AND).

```

## Usage

### Getting legacy expressions matches  

The recommended way to use the script is to execute it in first stage without passing the commit parameter. This will generate the file `legacy_expression_list.json` containing all the legacy expressions found in the database. Then, you can use this file to build the translation file.

```bash
python legacy_expression_tool.py \
    --host <mongodb-host> \
    --port <mongodb-port> \
    --database <mongodb-db> \
    --collection <mongodb-collection>
```

> This will generate 4 files. At this point, the most relevants are `legacy_expression_list.json` and `legacy_expression_ocurrences.json`. The first one contains a list of all the legacy expressions found in the database. The second one contains information about the objects where the legacy expressions are found.

Reviewer: 4 files or "up to 4 files". My doubt is regarding objects_backup.json. Is always generated? Or only when some document is effectively modified?

Reviewer: In additon, legacy_expression_list.json and legacy_expression_occurencense.json could be links to the sections of this document where they are described.

Author: 4 files are always generated each time the script is executed

Links Added in https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib/pull/1381/commits/cc9693fe782f6da453121ccdbeca6fad9b4f3997

array should contain the legacy expressions. This mechanism allows to verify that the legacy expressions are replaced 
correctly.

For more information about JEXL expression language you can check the [official documentation](FIXME) and the 
[IoT Agent expression language documentation](FIXME). You can also check the [legacy expression language documentation](FIXME)
 (deprecated).

### Verifying replacements

Once you have the translation file, you can execute the script without passing the commit parameter. This might be helpful to 
check if the translation file is correct through the output files `objects_replaced.json` and `objects_backup.json`. You can 
run the script using the following command:

```bash
python legacy_expression_tool.py \
    --host <mongodb-host> \
    --port <mongodb-port> \
    --database <mongodb-db> \
    --collection <mongodb-collection> \
    --translation <translation-file> 
```

In order to ensure that the replacement would work you have to consider:

- You didn't get an error while executing. If any expression is not found in the database, the script will raise an error 

> `ERROR: Expression not found in translation file: ${@myexpre*100} in object: 123481a8ac03ab212ab9e0c`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ERROR: Expression not found in translation file: ${@myexpre*100} in object: 123481a8ac03ab212ab9e0c`. Note that the script doesn't stop on error (if `--commit` is enabled, the expressions found in the translation file are translated, remaining in the DB only the ones that result in an error like this, a next pass should be done one the missing expression gets added to the translation document).
```

- Comparing files `objects_replaced.json` and `objects_backup.json`. The first one contains the objects where the legacy 
expressions have been replaced with all the information associated. The second one contains a list of objects containing 
legacy expression that have been backed up. You can compare the files using the following command:

```bash
diff objects_replaced.json objects_backup.json
```

### Executing the replacement in the database

If everithing is correct, you can execute the script passing the commit parameter to apply the changes to the database. 

> You only have to provide the commit parameter to the previous command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You only have to provide the `--commit` parameter to the previous command:
```
